# Cashu KVAC

Cashu has a protocol for blinding the values of the notes, which can be found in its [repo](https://github.com/a1denvalu3/cashu-kvac/blob/master/protocol_explanation.md). The doc in the repo is self explanatory enough, so here I will be just adding my notes for the sake of ideas I might have had or extra points that have been brought to my attention.

- What is the general idea?

    The notes are <u>commitments</u> to the amount they represent and a spending script instead of how it was before. The <u>commitments</u> basically binds to the amound and blinds it using a random value([What are commitment schemes?](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commitment_scheme)).

        Commitments are, in most use cases, meant to be unblinded at least by revieling the blinding factor. This is not the case in Cashu KVAC protocol due to privacy reasons. 

    When a note is to be sent to the Mint, it's <u>reblinded</u> again for the Mint to not be able to correlate the issuance to the spending of a coin.

        When a value is randomized or reblinded we loose any trivial way of connecting these two values, hence in this setting we need to make sure the randomized values are indeed from a valid coin signed and generated by the Mint. Which is later described as $\pi_{MAC}$

    To make sure that the amount a client is asking for in return of a note is always less than the amount they have, the client provides a proof proving that the difference is actually valid between the commitments to the inputs and the outputs.

        Note that the commitment schemes used here are all homomorphic and can be added together with no problem. This is later exlpained as proof of balance or $ \pi_{balance} $

    Now that values are created blindly by the Mint and only checked on the sum and the difference between the created notes and the spent ones, users may use modular arithmetics of the scheme to validate notes with huge hidden values which add to a correct difference for a transaction. To avoid that, each used should as well provide a range proof($\pi_{range}$) proving that the hidden values do match a range to eliminate the risk of such attacks(the mentioned attack is just one example it does more than this).

## Notation and Math

- Coin: A coin contains the blined value of its amount($M_a$), the blinded value of a script (noted as$M_s$ and optional), a tag for the MAC($t$), and the MAC value($V$).

    $$
        M_a = r_a \cdot G_{blind} + a \cdot G_{amount}\\
        M_s = r_s \cdot G_{blind} + s \cdot G_{script}\\
        U = HashToCurve(t)\\
        V = w \cdot G_w + x_0 \cdot U + x_1\cdot t \cdot U + y_a \cdot M_a + y_s \cdot M_s \\
        Coin : ((r_a, a), (r_s, s),(t, V))
    $$
- Randomized Coin: These is the coin actually sent to the Mint to be spent (either to be swapt for new ones, or for peg-in or peg-out). It contains the commitment to $M_a$, $M_s$, $V$, $x_0$, and $x_1$.
    $$
        C_a = r_a \cdot G_{z_{amount}} + M_a \\
        C_s = r_a \cdot G_{z_{script}} + M_s \\
        C_v = r_a \cdot G_{z_{mac}} + V\\
        C_{x_0} = r_a \cdot G_{x_0} + U \\
        C_{x_1} = r_a \cdot G_{x_1} + t\cdot U
    $$
- Nullifier: The value stored for each coin/note to make it invalid if attempted to double spend. In this scheme, this value is assumed to be $C_a$.
- Mint's Idendtity: The public and private values we assume for the Mint. 
    $$
        sk = (w, w', x_0, x_1, y_a, y_s)\\
        pk = (I, C_w) s.t. \\
            C_w = w\cdot G_w + w' \cdot G_{w'}\\
            I = G_{z_{mac}} - (x_0\cdot G_{x_0} +x_1\cdot G_{x_1} + y_a \cdot G_{z_{amount}} + y_s \cdot G_{z_{script}})
    $$
- Proof of Issuance: The proof given by the Mint to prove the correctness of the issuance of the coins.

        This is not mentioned explicityly in the document in the repo. What would the proof be? 
- Proof of the Range: Bulletproof range proofs proving that the scalar value of $M_a$, being $a$ is withing a range being $(0, 2^l)$.

- Proof of MAC: Proof that rerandomization has been done correctly.

    Public inputs (Provided by the user): $(C_a, C_s, C_{x_0}, C_{x_1}, C_v)$

    Private inputs (Provided by the Mint): $(w, x_0, x_1, y_a, y_s)$

    Verification:
    $$
        C_v  - r_a \cdot I = x_0 \cdot C_{x_0} + x_1 \cdot C_{x_1} + y_a \cdot C_a + y_s \cdot C_s + C_w - w' \cdot G_{w'}
    $$
    Correctness:
    $$
        C_v = r_a \cdot G_{z_{MAC}} + V = r_a \cdot G_{z_{MAC}} + w \cdot G_w + x_0 \cdot U + x_1\cdot (t U) + y_a \cdot M_a + y_s \cdot M_s \\
        w \cdot G_w = C_w - w'\cdot G_{w'} \\
        x_0 \cdot U = x_0 \cdot C_{x_0} - (x_0 r_a)\cdot G_{x_0} \\
        x_1 \cdot (tU) = x_1 \cdot C_{x_1} - (x_1 r_a)\cdot G_{x_1} \\
        y_a \cdot M_a = y_a \cdot C_a - (y_a r_a) \cdot G_{z_{amount}}\\
        y_s \cdot M_s = y_s \cdot C_s - (y_s r_a) \cdot G_{z_{script}}\\
        C_v = r_a \cdot G_{z_{MAC}} +  C_w - w'\cdot G_{w'} + x_0 \cdot C_{x_0} - (x_0 r_a)\cdot G_{x_0} + x_1 \cdot C_{x_1} - (x_1 r_a)\cdot G_{x_1} + y_a \cdot C_a - (y_a r_a) \cdot G_{z_{amount}} + y_s \cdot C_s - (y_s r_a) \cdot G_{z_{script}} \\
        C_v = C_w + x_0 \cdot C_{x_0} + x_1 \cdot C_{x_1} + y_a \cdot C_a + y_s \cdot C_s  + r_a \cdot (G_{z_{mac}} - (x_0\cdot G_{x_0} +x_1\cdot G_{x_1} + y_a \cdot G_{z_{amount}} + y_s \cdot G_{z_{script}})) - (w'w)\cdot G_{w'} \\
        C_v =  C_w + x_0 \cdot C_{x_0} + x_1 \cdot C_{x_1} + y_a \cdot C_a + y_s \cdot C_s  + r_a \cdot I - w'\cdot G_{w'} \\
        C_v  - r_a \cdot I = C_w + x_0 \cdot C_{x_0} + x_1 \cdot C_{x_1} + y_a \cdot C_a + y_s \cdot C_s - w'\cdot G_{w'}
    $$
    <u>Note that the math for this proof and verification in the original file in the repo is wrong.</u>
- Proof of Balance ($\pi_{balance}$): It checks that when creating new coins from a set of coin commitments, sums up to an exact $\Delta_a$ value.
    New Blinded Amounts: $$M_{a'} = r_{a'} \cdot G_{blind} + a' \cdot G_{amount}$$
    Old Commited Coins: $$C_a = r_a \cdot G_{z_{amount}} + M_a = r_a \cdot G_{z_{amount}} + r_a \cdot G_{blind} + a \cdot G_{amount}$$
    Objective: $$ \Delta_a = \Sigma_{i = 0} ^ n a_i - a'_i $$
    Proof: $$B = \Sigma_{i=0} ^n (r_{a_i} \cdot G_{z_{amount}} + (r_{a_i} - r'_{a_i}) \cdot G_{blind}$$
    Verification:
    $$
       B =  \Sigma_{i=0} ^n (C_{a_i} - M _{a'_i}) - \Delta_a \cdot G_{amount}
    $$
    Correctness:
    $$
        \Sigma_{i=0} ^n (C_{a_i} - M _{a'_i}) - \Delta_a \cdot G_{amount} = \\
         \Sigma_{i=0} ^n (C_{a_i} - M _{a'_i}) - \Sigma_{i = 0} ^ n (a_i - a'_i) \cdot G_{amount}= \\
        \Sigma_{i=0} ^n (C_{a_i} - M _{a'_i}) - (\Sigma_{i = 0} ^ n a_i \cdot G_{amount} - \Sigma_{i = 0} ^ n  a'_i \cdot G_{amount}) = \\
        (\Sigma_{i=0}^n r_{a_i}  \cdot G_{z_{amount}} + r_{a_i}  \cdot G_{blind} + a_i \cdot G_{amount}) - (\Sigma_{i=0}^n  r_{a'_i}  \cdot G_{blind} + a_i' \cdot G_{amount})  - (\Sigma_{i = 0} ^ n a_i \cdot G_{amount} - \Sigma_{i = 0} ^ n  a'_i \cdot G_{amount}) = \\
        \Sigma_{i=0}^n r_{a_i}  \cdot G_{z_{amount}} + r_{a_i}  \cdot G_{blind} - \Sigma_{i=0}^n  r_{a'_i}  \cdot G_{blind} = \\
        \Sigma_{i=0}^n r_{a_i}  \cdot G_{z_{amount}} + \Sigma_{i=0}^n (r_{a_i} - r_{a'_i}) . G_{blind} = B
    $$
    <u>Note that the math for this proof and verification in the original file in the repo is wrong.</u>

## Bootstrapping

A user just joining the protocol needs to create coins with amoint set to zero at first to then be able to create the corresponding intputs for a swap of coins. This in this protocol is called bootstrapping.